Hi, my name is Claire and I'm from River
Valley Middle School.
I am a teacher and school counselor here,
and today I am here to share
what how we've been implementing
social emotional learning for school.
At our school, what we've been following
is the castle format,
and that's really been the foundation
for what we've been using there.
The way Castle, breaks it down
is into five different competencies
self-awareness, self-management,
responsible decision making, relationship
skills, and social awareness.
And so that is really,
I guess, the foundation
of social emotional learning.
It's more than just, managing emotions.
It's really about building and developing
life skills that students
need to succeed, not just in school,
but outside of school as well.
We had,
Mark Nicholson come in
and he
started with some professional learning
and helped us,
just basically build up our toolkit
with different practices and strategies
we could use in the classroom.
So it was really great way to sort of,
sort of a refresh for us to be able
to see what we were already doing
around social emotional learning
and then act to add to it.
So from there, teachers started sharing
the strategies that they were using
during our weekly PLCs
and their names were put in
for a weekly draw, which was fun,
and they started modeling
what they were doing at our,
staff meetings, which has been awesome
because then we're not just hearing
about them, but we're actually participating in it, which makes a big difference.
So, yeah,
so some of
the things that teachers have been doing
have been, like the welcoming greeting,
the way that they meet the students
before class.
And it's neat to see the way teachers
can use their own personalities
and their own teaching styles.
And I guess even their subject area
would sort
of make each strategy
a little bit unique for them.
So, yeah.
So we have some teachers meeting students
at the door with like a fist
pump or a high five, which is really fun.
And then teachers are doing things,
like during class, like spring breaks,
sort of to help get them engaged and move
around, give their brain a little, rest.
So that might look like,
for some teachers, that sort of,
mindfulness practices yoga.
And then we have teachers
who love to just dance,
so they'll put a song up on the,
on the smartboard.
And the students enjoy that.
Yeah.
So another I
guess another example would be exit slips
and how students can sort of reflect
on what they've been learning that day
or in that class, but also, you know,
what they might be looking forward to.
So, you know, what is one thing
that you're looking forward to
at the end of this week
or at the end of today?
And just sort of just sort of to help
kind of give an optimistic
closing of the, of the lesson.
So those are some ideas that we've been
sharing, I guess, that have been shared.
As a school counselor, I think it's
really, you know, it's awesome
that we're focusing on it and really
making it, a goal for the year.
And I think it's been great
bringing us together, like having us share
the activities that we're using,
especially like to be able to see,
like I said, different personalities
and different teaching styles.
That's been fun.
There's been, competition as well,
a friendly competition,
to help teachers
sort of encourage teachers
to know the names
of all of the students in the building
and to be able to say
hi and greet them by their name.
So that's been a lot of fun.
And I absolutely can see
how it's had a positive impact
on the students when, you know,
they just light up a different way
when you greet them by name.
If you were looking to grow
like a cell in your school, I would say
I would encourage you to use the Castle
framework as your foundation.
I mean, the Castle
framework has its own website
and examples of different strategies
that you can use, in your classroom.
So it's a really good resource.
And provides
professional learning opportunities
for the teachers.
And then I would say to provide,
space for them to be able to share
and celebrate their,
you know, their efforts.
I think that those would be
the three main
things that I would encourage you to do.